So the exam as a strong emphasis
on Microsoft Active Directory and AWS directory services.
So I really wanna make sure
that we both understand what this is
'cause I think it's quite complicated
especially if you're not from Microsoft background
and I wanna make sure you choose the right answer
at the exam when a question or two comes up on this topic.
So, what is Microsoft AD?
It's found on any windows server
that has something called AD Domain Services.
And it's going to a database of objects
would it be user accounts, computers,
printers, file shares, security groups
and it's gonna be centralized way for security management,
creating new accounts, assigning partitions all
in your windows, in Microsoft environment.
And the objects, the users, the accounts, the printers
everything they're going to be grouped together
and organized into something called a tree.
And as the name indicates,(chuckles)
a group of trees is called a forest.
So, what do we have Microsoft AD?
For example, we have a domain controller that knows
that John is username and password is the password
which is not a very strong password, but anyway
and we have other machines
Microsoft machines connected to this domain controller.
The beautiful thing is that now one can use John password
of on any of these machines to connect
and the active directory will check the login itself.
So that allows us to synchronize sort of
all these logins across domain controller.
That is something very, very simple simplified as well.
Don't get at me
if I don't do this exactly perfectly for the Microsoft AD
but this is at a high level providing you an idea
of how Microsoft AD works.
So what is ADFS?
Well, ADFS will provide Single-Sign On
across applications and it has SAML innovation
across third party.
For example, the Console, Dropbox, Office 365 and so on.
So we've seen how ADFS works.
So remember the user
will browse to URL
in the Microsoft Active Directory Services
which will authenticate the user against a Microsoft Active
Directory.
The SAML Token will be returned to the user
and then the we'll exchange it with AWS to get a sign in URL
for the console.
So we'll see how this will be improved
with the SSO service later on.
Okay, so now let's get into AWS Directory Services.
We have three flavors and this is a managed service by AWS.
So the first coin is called AWS Managed Microsoft AD.
As you can expect is going to be a Microsoft AD
in the Cloud.
So you're going to be able to create your own AD in AWS
manage users locally, and it has support for MFA.
You will have to establish a trust with your on-premise AD
and we'll see what that trust looks like.
If you want to have some kind of connection
between your on-premise AD and your AWS Manage Microsoft AD.
So let's have a look here in this diagram,
you can see that the Manage AD is connected
to the on-premise AD through a trust and it supports MFA
and so the users can authenticate
on the right hand side or on the left hand side.
Then we have Microsoft AD.
We have database directory services, AD Connector.
So, I wish they name things differently, but anyway,
so this is a proxy to make the link
from your Cloud AD to your on-premises AD
and it supports MFA.
And the users are for the only managed in one place
which is the on-premise AD.
So in this case, the authentication goes
to the AD connector, which is a proxy
and it gets proxy back
onto the on-premise AD to get the response.
So in the first case with Microsoft Manage AD
we had two places where the users were defined.
There were defined on-premise and in the Cloud
and there was some trust between the two
but with the AD connector
they're only defined on-premise
and we've defined a proxy to access that
on-premise AD directly from the Cloud.
Finally, we have Simple AD, which is not Microsoft AD
it's a AD-compatible API.
It's called Samba and it's managed in AWS
but it's standalone
and it cannot be joined with an on-premise AD.
So in this case with Simple AD, it's a cheaper alternative.
It doesn't have as much capability.
It doesn't support MFA, for example.
It cannot be joined to AWS
such as SQL server and so on
but contribute simpler, cheaper
and maybe a good solution based on the questions you get.
So we have three kinds of directory services
and I think they're quite clear the differences
but I really want to go deep dive into each of
those to make it very very clear
as to how they're different.
So, with AWS managed Microsoft AD,
you're going to be deploying Microsoft active directory
within your VPC.
So here's what it looks like.
We have two AZs and we'll have two AD Domain Controller or
AD DC deployed in two different for high availability.
And now we're going to be able to create easy
two windows instances
and we can deploy traditional applications
on these instances, for example, SharePoint
or we can do something called seamless domain join
from your Amazon EC2 instances in Multiple Accounts
and VPCs directly onto your domain controllers.
This is a feature directly coming out of
the managed Microsoft AD.
And finally we have integrations.
So if we deploy a Managed Microsoft AD in the Cloud
we can use it seamlessly integrated
with RDS for SQL Server, workspaces, Quick sites.
And we can even create SSO to provide access
to third party applications
and have another diagram showing you this
in a second.
This directory, so the Managed Microsoft AD
can be a standalone repository in AWS,
or it can be joined to your on-premise AD
and we'll see how to join it in a second.
The Multi AZ deployment is going to be 2AZ at minimum
but in case you want to increase your scaling
and your availability
you are able to add more Domain Controllers.
So in this example, I'm adding two more Domain Controllers,
that's 4 AD DC and we have increased availability.
Finally, this looks like RDS for Microsoft AD.
So you have automated backups if you need to.
And another last feature is
that you get Automated Multi-Region replication
of your directory, if you need to.
Now, let's have a look at the integrations in depth.
So your managed Microsoft AA DC is in the middle
and it can get integrated
with your on-premise active directory
using something called two-way Forest trust
and we'll see this in a second in the next slide.
It can also integrate with a bunch of database services.
So most importantly is RDS for SQL server,
Amazon Workspaces, Quick sites, Connect,
WorkDocs and Single-Sign On.
And with Single-Sign On that we'll see in the future lecture
we have access to more SAML business applications
such as GitHub, Box, Dropbox, Office 365 and so on.
Finally, your traditional active directory applications
such as your dot NET Apps, your SharePoint
and your SQL server that you deploy
on EC2 instances can obviously be integrated
with that active directory that's managed by AWS.
So, what do you remember out of it?
That is the going to be the most integrated
with AWS offering from directory services.
Now, something I want to highlight is how to connect this
to your on-premise active directory
because that is going to be extremely important
going to the exam to understand this subtlety.
So you are able to connect your on-premise AD
to AWS Manage Microsoft AD.
And for this, you need to set up a Direct Connect
and this will going to be DX in this course
or a VPN connection between the two.
So we have your on-premise and your VPC
and we have set up a connection between these two.
And so we have our on-premise Microsoft AD
which manages its own user on-premise,
and you have AWS Manage Microsoft AD
this going to also be managing its own users on AWS.
And so you can set up three kind of forest trust.
The first one is one way when we have AWS trust on-premise
the second one is the other one way
which you have the on-premise trust AWS.
And finally you have something called two-way forest trust
where they both trust each other and means
that you can access one from the other and vice versa.
So let's have a look
we have trust this way and trust that way.
And so that means that we have a two-way forest trust.
And the important thing to understand here
is that this forest trust is going to be different
than synchronization.
So, replication is not something that is supported
by AWS management Microsoft AD.
So that means that their users are living independently
on the two different Microsoft active directory.
But thanks to this forest trust, they're able to talk
to each other in case one user is missing
from one and ask the other DC, Hey
do you think you have that user because I trust you
so very important to understand the distinction.
So, your traditional active directory app
can connect to on-premise.
Your easy to instances can do seamless domain joint
onto your Microsoft Manage AD.
But now, because we have set up a two-way forest trust
your traditional active directory app
in case it is trying to request a domain that belongs
to AWS.
Thanks to the trust.
It's able to go all the way
and check the user on the right hand side.
So this is the whole idea behind two-way forest trust.
You don't need to know that level of detail in the exam
but hopefully that gives you a much better idea
of what is a trust between your on-premise
and your online on AWS Microsoft AD.
So, now let's talk about a bit more solution architecture
because we have to get into those
and they can be quite complicated
but say you want to have your Microsoft AD that's
on-premise replicated on AWS for minimizing latency.
So, for example, we want to say, okay
we want to have our replica of the on-premise AD on AWS
because if somehow the direct connect or the VPN goes down
then we still want our users to have connectivity
and function correctly.
So we also need to be establishing trust between these ADs.
So what does it look like?
Well, we have our on-premise Microsoft AD with one domain
and we have the VPC AWS Managed Microsoft AD DC
with another domain.
The only way to set up some kind of replication
is for you to deploy active directory
on an easy two windows instance,
and you will have to set up replication.
And by setting up those replication
we'll have a replica on-premise Microsoft AD onto our VPC
which may help minimize latency
and also have a disaster recovery strategy.
And finally, we can set up a two-way forest trust
between our EC2 instance
and our AWS Manage Microsoft AD DC in this own VPC.
So this is the kind
of solution architecture that will be asked
from you at the exam.
So that's why it's really important to
get the basics done first.
And then talk about these little interesting twists
on solution architecture.
Okay, so that's all for AWS manage Microsoft AD.
Now we have AD Connector, which is much simpler.
So it's going to be a gateway.
So a proxy to redirect your request
your on-premise Microsoft Active Directory
there's no caching capability.
The users are solely managed on-premise,
there is no trust being set up
and need to have VPN or Direct Connect.
And so it doesn't have this integration with SQL server.
It doesn't do seamless joining it comes share directory.
So this is something a bit more basic.
And hopefully the example will be very clear
if you need AD connector that some kind of directory proxy
but AD Connector in case the connection goes down,
well, it's basically useless.
So how does that work?
Well, we have our corporate office and the Database Cloud
and there will be a VPN or Direct Connect
connection between these two,
and then therefore we can have our active directory directly
within our corporate office
but our users who wants to again
will happen to do the following flow.
So first they will use the credentials
onto a custom signing page.
This signing page will be connected to the AD Connector
which may be multi AZ.
So in one AZ, the AD Connector will be used.
This AD Connector then will proxy the request
all the way through to the active directory
on the corporate office
and will perform LDAP authentication.
And if this is good
then the AD Connector will perform the STS assumerole IAM
which will get back temporary credentials.
And then our user will be authenticated into AWS.
Finally, you have Simple AD
which is going to be very inexpensive Active Directory
and it's going to have the most common directory features.
It will support joining of EC2 instances,
managing users and groups,
but it won't support multifactor authentication.
It will not support the integration with RDS SQL server.
It will not support SSO
and it's only for small amount of users.
So, 500 users up to maybe 5,000 users
depending on the tier you want to use.
It's powered by Samba 4, and it's compatible
with Microsoft AD in terms of the API
but it's a lower cost, low scale.
It's only has basic AD capability or LDAP compatibility
and you cannot set up a trust with a on-premise
Microsoft AD.
So that's it.
Obviously the most important one is going to be
the first one described
but now you have the three options of directory services
and hopefully there's a bit more clear which one to choose
based on which circumstances at the exam.
All right, that's it.
I will see you in the next lecture.